docs/user/tutorials/01-11-create-git-function.md, before:

# Create a Git Function

> [!ATTENTION]
> Git-sourced Functions require that your Kyma cluster can reach the Git repository over the network. If outbound connectivity to external Git hosts is restricted, for example, in regulated markets like China, fetching code from external repositories fails.

This tutorial shows how you can build a Function from code and dependencies stored in a Git repository, which is an alternative way to keeping the code in the Function CR. The tutorial is based on the Function from the [`redis rest` example](https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless/tree/main/examples/redis-rest). It describes steps required to fetch the Function's source code and dependencies from a public Git repository that does not need any authentication method. However, it also provides additional guidance on how to secure it if you are using a private repository.

To learn more about Git repository sources for Functions and different ways of securing your repository, read about the [Git source type](../technical-reference/07-40-git-source-type.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Read about the [purpose and benefits of Istio sidecar proxies](https://kyma-project.io/#/istio/user/00-00-istio-sidecar-proxies?id=purpose-and-benefits-of-istio-sidecar-proxies). Then, check how to [enable Istio sidecar proxy injection](https://kyma-project.io/#/istio/user/tutorials/01-40-enable-sidecar-injection). For more details, see [Default Istio Configuration](https://kyma-project.io/#/istio/user/00-15-overview-istio-setup?id=default-istio-configuration).

## Prerequisites

* You have the [Serverless module added](https://kyma-project.io/02-get-started/01-quick-install.html).

## Procedure

You can create a Function either with kubectl or Kyma dashboard:

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### **Kyma Dashboard**

> [!NOTE]
> Kyma dashboard uses Busola, which is not installed by default. Follow the [installation instructions](https://github.com/kyma-project/busola/blob/main/docs/install-kyma-dashboard-manually.md).

1. Create a namespace or select one from the drop-down list in the top navigation panel.

2. Create a Secret (optional).

    If you use a secured repository, you must first create a Secret with either basic (username and password or token) or SSH key authentication to this repository in the same namespace as the Function. To do that, follow these sub-steps:

    1. Open your namespace view. In the left navigation panel, go to **Configuration** > **Secrets** and choose **Create**.

    2. Enter the Secret name and type.

    3. Under **Data**, enter these key-value pairs with credentials:

        - Basic authentication: `username: {USERNAME}` and `password: {PASSWORD_OR_TOKEN}`

        - SSH key: `key: {SSH_KEY}`

        > [!NOTE]
        > Read more about the [supported authentication methods](../technical-reference/07-40-git-source-type.md).

    4. Confirm by selecting **Create**.

3. Go to **Workloads** > **Functions** > **Create**.

4. Provide the Function's name.

5. To connect the repository, change **Source Type** from **Inline** to **Git Repository**.

6. Choose `JavaScript` from the **Language** dropdown and select the proper runtime.

7. Click on the **Git Repository** section and enter the following values:
   - Repository **URL**: `https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless.git`
   - **Base Dir**:`examples/redis-rest`
   - **Reference**:`main`

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you want to connect a secured repository instead of a public one, toggle the **Auth** switch. In the **Auth** section, choose **Secret** from the list and choose the preferred type.

8. Click **Create**.

    After a while, a message confirms that the Function has been created.
    Make sure that the new Function has the `RUNNING` status.

#### **kubectl**

1. Export these variables:

    ```bash
    export GIT_FUNCTION={GIT_FUNCTION_NAME}
    export NAMESPACE={FUNCTION_NAMESPACE}
    export KUBECONFIG={PATH_TO_YOUR_KUBECONFIG}
    ```

2. Create a Secret (optional).

    If you use a secured repository, follow the sub-steps for the basic or SSH key authentication:

    - Basic authentication (username and password or token)
  
    1. Generate a [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic) and copy it.
    2. Create a Secret containing your username and the generated token. You must create the Secret in the same namespace as the Function.

       ```bash
       kubectl -n $NAMESPACE create secret generic git-creds-basic --from-literal=username={GITHUB_USERNAME} --from-literal=password={GENERATED_PERSONAL_TOKEN}
       ```

    - SSH key:

    1. Generate a new SSH key pair (private and public). Follow [this tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) to learn how to do it. Alternatively, you can use the existing pair.
    2. Install the generated private key in Kyma, as a Kubernetes Secret located in the same namespace as your Function.

       ```bash
       kubectl -n $NAMESPACE create secret generic git-creds-ssh --from-file=key={PATH_TO_THE_FILE_WITH_PRIVATE_KEY}
       ```

    3. Configure the public key in GitHub. Follow the steps described in [this tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

    > [!NOTE]
    > Read more about the [supported authentication methods](../technical-reference/07-40-git-source-type.md).

3. Create a Function CR that specifies the Function's logic and points to the directory with code and dependencies in the given repository. It also specifies the Git repository metadata:

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha2
   kind: Function
   metadata:
     name: $GIT_FUNCTION
     namespace: $NAMESPACE
   spec:
     runtime: nodejs20
     source:
       gitRepository:
         baseDir: examples/redis-rest/src
         reference: main
         url: https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless.git
   EOF
   ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you use a secured repository, add the **auth** object with the adequate **type** and **secretName** fields to the spec under **gitRepository**:

    ```yaml
    gitRepository:
      ...
      auth:
        type: # "basic" or "key"
        secretName: # "git-creds-basic" or "git-creds-ssh"
    ```

    If you use the `key` type authentication, you must use the SSH URL format to configure the Function URL:

    ```yaml
    gitRepository:
      ...
      url: git@github.com/<your-github-handle>/<repo-name>.git
      auth:
        type: key
        secretName: "git-creds-ssh"
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > See this [Function's code and dependencies](https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless/tree/main/examples/redis-rest).

4. Check if your Function was created and all conditions are set to `True`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get functions $GIT_FUNCTION -n $NAMESPACE
    ```

    You should get a result similar to this example:

    ```bash
    NAME            CONFIGURED   BUILT     RUNNING   RUNTIME    VERSION   AGE
    test-function   True         True      True      nodejs20   1         96s
    ```

<!-- tabs:end -->

Commit message:

Update Busola installation links
Updated links for Busola installation instructions in the Kyma dashboard section.

docs/user/tutorials/01-11-create-git-function.md, after:

# Create a Git Function

> [!ATTENTION]
> Git-sourced Functions require that your Kyma cluster can reach the Git repository over the network. If outbound connectivity to external Git hosts is restricted, for example, in regulated markets like China, fetching code from external repositories fails.

This tutorial shows how you can build a Function from code and dependencies stored in a Git repository, which is an alternative way to keeping the code in the Function CR. The tutorial is based on the Function from the [`redis rest` example](https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless/tree/main/examples/redis-rest). It describes steps required to fetch the Function's source code and dependencies from a public Git repository that does not need any authentication method. However, it also provides additional guidance on how to secure it if you are using a private repository.

To learn more about Git repository sources for Functions and different ways of securing your repository, read about the [Git source type](../technical-reference/07-40-git-source-type.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Read about the [purpose and benefits of Istio sidecar proxies](https://kyma-project.io/#/istio/user/00-00-istio-sidecar-proxies?id=purpose-and-benefits-of-istio-sidecar-proxies). Then, check how to [enable Istio sidecar proxy injection](https://kyma-project.io/#/istio/user/tutorials/01-40-enable-sidecar-injection). For more details, see [Default Istio Configuration](https://kyma-project.io/#/istio/user/00-15-overview-istio-setup?id=default-istio-configuration).

## Prerequisites

* You have the [Serverless module added](https://kyma-project.io/02-get-started/01-quick-install.html).

## Procedure

You can create a Function either with kubectl or Kyma dashboard:

<!-- tabs:start -->

#### **Kyma Dashboard**

> [!NOTE]
> Kyma dashboard uses Busola, which is not installed by default. See [Deploying and Accessing Busola in k3d](https://github.com/kyma-project/busola/blob/main/docs/contributor/deploy-access-k3d.md) and [Deploying and Accessing Busola in a Kubernetes Cluster](https://github.com/kyma-project/busola/blob/main/docs/contributor/deploy-access-kubernetes.md).

1. Create a namespace or select one from the drop-down list in the top navigation panel.

2. Create a Secret (optional).

    If you use a secured repository, you must first create a Secret with either basic (username and password or token) or SSH key authentication to this repository in the same namespace as the Function. To do that, follow these sub-steps:

    1. Open your namespace view. In the left navigation panel, go to **Configuration** > **Secrets** and choose **Create**.

    2. Enter the Secret name and type.

    3. Under **Data**, enter these key-value pairs with credentials:

        - Basic authentication: `username: {USERNAME}` and `password: {PASSWORD_OR_TOKEN}`

        - SSH key: `key: {SSH_KEY}`

        > [!NOTE]
        > Read more about the [supported authentication methods](../technical-reference/07-40-git-source-type.md).

    4. Confirm by selecting **Create**.

3. Go to **Workloads** > **Functions** > **Create**.

4. Provide the Function's name.

5. To connect the repository, change **Source Type** from **Inline** to **Git Repository**.

6. Choose `JavaScript` from the **Language** dropdown and select the proper runtime.

7. Click on the **Git Repository** section and enter the following values:
   - Repository **URL**: `https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless.git`
   - **Base Dir**:`examples/redis-rest`
   - **Reference**:`main`

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you want to connect a secured repository instead of a public one, toggle the **Auth** switch. In the **Auth** section, choose **Secret** from the list and choose the preferred type.

8. Click **Create**.

    After a while, a message confirms that the Function has been created.
    Make sure that the new Function has the `RUNNING` status.

#### **kubectl**

1. Export these variables:

    ```bash
    export GIT_FUNCTION={GIT_FUNCTION_NAME}
    export NAMESPACE={FUNCTION_NAMESPACE}
    export KUBECONFIG={PATH_TO_YOUR_KUBECONFIG}
    ```

2. Create a Secret (optional).

    If you use a secured repository, follow the sub-steps for the basic or SSH key authentication:

    - Basic authentication (username and password or token)
  
    1. Generate a [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens#creating-a-personal-access-token-classic) and copy it.
    2. Create a Secret containing your username and the generated token. You must create the Secret in the same namespace as the Function.

       ```bash
       kubectl -n $NAMESPACE create secret generic git-creds-basic --from-literal=username={GITHUB_USERNAME} --from-literal=password={GENERATED_PERSONAL_TOKEN}
       ```

    - SSH key:

    1. Generate a new SSH key pair (private and public). Follow [this tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent) to learn how to do it. Alternatively, you can use the existing pair.
    2. Install the generated private key in Kyma, as a Kubernetes Secret located in the same namespace as your Function.

       ```bash
       kubectl -n $NAMESPACE create secret generic git-creds-ssh --from-file=key={PATH_TO_THE_FILE_WITH_PRIVATE_KEY}
       ```

    3. Configure the public key in GitHub. Follow the steps described in [this tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

    > [!NOTE]
    > Read more about the [supported authentication methods](../technical-reference/07-40-git-source-type.md).

3. Create a Function CR that specifies the Function's logic and points to the directory with code and dependencies in the given repository. It also specifies the Git repository metadata:

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
   apiVersion: serverless.kyma-project.io/v1alpha2
   kind: Function
   metadata:
     name: $GIT_FUNCTION
     namespace: $NAMESPACE
   spec:
     runtime: nodejs20
     source:
       gitRepository:
         baseDir: examples/redis-rest/src
         reference: main
         url: https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless.git
   EOF
   ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > If you use a secured repository, add the **auth** object with the adequate **type** and **secretName** fields to the spec under **gitRepository**:

    ```yaml
    gitRepository:
      ...
      auth:
        type: # "basic" or "key"
        secretName: # "git-creds-basic" or "git-creds-ssh"
    ```

    If you use the `key` type authentication, you must use the SSH URL format to configure the Function URL:

    ```yaml
    gitRepository:
      ...
      url: git@github.com/<your-github-handle>/<repo-name>.git
      auth:
        type: key
        secretName: "git-creds-ssh"
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > See this [Function's code and dependencies](https://github.com/kyma-project/serverless/tree/main/examples/redis-rest).

4. Check if your Function was created and all conditions are set to `True`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get functions $GIT_FUNCTION -n $NAMESPACE
    ```

    You should get a result similar to this example:

    ```bash
    NAME            CONFIGURED   BUILT     RUNNING   RUNTIME    VERSION   AGE
    test-function   True         True      True      nodejs20   1         96s
    ```

<!-- tabs:end -->
